---
title: Fridays
category: thoughts
tags: thoughts words
layout: post
---
When I get home from school and work on a Friday afternoon things feel different. It’s 4:30pm. I take off my shoes and get comfortable for the evening. I most likely have no plans other than staying at home, for there’s usually not much I have planned for Friday evenings. I’ll probably sit down and think about what I’m going to eat for dinner or how I’m going to entertain myself for the solitary evening. I feel a sense of urgency. After a long week, I’ve exceeded the workload needed to be accomplished. I’ve spent every inch of free time doing projects and assignments for 5 days straight.

But now it’s time to relax. How am I supposed to do that?

This is the urgency I feel at 4:30pm on a Friday. I’m supposed to enjoy myself now. I should be out having fun with friends and if not that, binge watching Netflix like the rest of people. But work schedules with friends never line up so that any fun can be had on Fridays. And I can’t sit still and watch Netflix for more than an hour. I tried to watch movies on Halloween(because it was Halloween for God’s sake; I was supposed to have “fun”) and I started two different movies without finishing them. In the middle of it, I got distracted and cleaned the whole apartment.

Fridays are a symbol for taking time for yourself. It’s the start of the weekend which means relaxation and a vacation from work. But what do you do when your work becomes your life? I don’t know if I’m a workaholic, but I could very well be. I sometimes dread Friday nights because they end up making me feel like I’m not having as much fun as everyone else. They make me feel like I don’t even know how sometimes. There’s so much pressure to enjoy yourself, especially in college. Sometimes it can feel like your surrounded by extroverts who always have something cool up their sleeve to do when the weekend rolls around. When really, there’s a whole half of society that’s chilling alone at home right now. And they love it. But the problem is, you don’t hear about these people. You look out your window and see everyone going everywhere and you feel like you’re missing out. You feel like if you’re not having fun constantly, you’re wasting your time, and your life. Being an introvert, it’s strange of me to feel so envious of the social butterflies. I very much can enjoy time spent alone. But on Fridays, it’s different. And I feel like I’m missing out.

But you know what, I don’t think you have to have fun on Friday nights. If you’re sitting at home alone, you may feel like everyone’s out having fun without you and living their lives to the fullest. I have to remind myself of the other half of society that is doing nothing on Fridays too. You can go out on Friday, or you can stay home and knit. You can do homework on a Friday, or you can go to bed early. Just because it’s Friday doesn’t make your solitude less meaningful if that’s what you enjoy. You can be alone on a Friday. At least I think so. Who knows, maybe I am wasting my life. This isn’t a self help blog and I’m not trying to give anyone all the answers here. All I know is I’m sick of dreading Fridays just because of the pressure they come with to do fun things when I have nothing exciting to do. It’s a Friday night, but you know what? I’m going to do laundry and I’m going to work on projects and browse the Internet and bake cookies and watch Netflix (if I’m lucky enough to be able to sit still and relax for that long) alone. And it’s going to be fine.

Happy Friday.

-B
