---
title: Los Angeles
categories: photography travel
tags: LA photography travel
layout: post
---

Processed with VSCOcam with b1 preset
Greetings, all. Currently I’m embarking on a month and a half long post-grad International journey. In an effort to reflect upon and document my travels, I’m going to write about each location, share photos, and talk about my inner thoughts on this here web address. You know, blog stuff. The first stop on my journey- the City of Angels. (Disclaimer: I’m just an uninformed tourist from Ohio so excuse me if anything I say here is completely false.)

LA was full of great stresses and great reward. I arrived at the airport and called an Uber to take me to my friend, Jeannette’s apartment (shout out to my awesome friend Jeannette!) Confused and half deaf from my ear’s failure to pop on the plane’s descent, I was unable to hear and comprehend where my driver wanted me to go to get picked up. He dropped the trip so I called another one. Same thing. Unable to find my two Uber drivers in the sprawling LAX pickup curb, I settled and waved for a cab. The meter climbed exponentially to the price of $20 in the first 7 minutes before I told the cab driver to just drop me off at the next exit to avoid a $100 tab. I unloaded my bags at the unfamiliar gas station, hiding between cars as to hopefully look invisible to the station customers. I quickly called another Uber, hopefully to be able to find me this time. I tracked down my driver, Sasha, and got in the car as quickly as I could without calling attention to myself, two suitcases and a backpack in hand. I explained the hilarity of my situation to Sasha and the other car passenger, who called to my attention that I had indeed been stranded in the ghetto of downtown LA. I am relieved that I did not realize this fact until I was safely in a moving vehicle. This would not be the only time that I would find myself in a rough neighborhood without realizing it until a later time. Read on to learn more.

Processed with VSCOcam with a9 preset

LA is a city that’s presented to be full of stardom, rich people, and class. I was relieved that there was much more to it than show business. I really didn’t see much of this side at all, which was completely fine with me. It’s a very diverse city with extreme highs and low lows. The landscape is beautiful and vast. There is so much to see in Los Angeles, of which I only saw a fraction of in my four and a half days there. California truly is a beautiful place and It’s no wonder why so many choose to settle in the smog and traffic filled town of LA. As the public transportation system is slow and impractical, access to a car or Uber is almost a necessity. Even if you do have a car, locals complain that the traffic is horrendous. But the several Uber drivers I talked to spoke with great love for their city. The weather is perfect, the culture is iconic, and the land surrounding is filled with beautiful mountains, beaches, deserts, and immersive urban areas, all within a short drive (when traffic is light).

Processed with VSCOcam with a7 preset

I had been to California once a few years before, but to the desert city of Palm Springs. I loved it there. The state of California seemed like a foreign land compared to the Midwest. Returning this time to Los Angeles, I knew I would again enjoy the tall palm trees, dry air, and rain-free heat. There’s just something about California that’s pretty magical. There’s songs, movies, and shows about it. During my brief stay, I got to experience a well rounded view of the city. One of my favorite sights was the hike up to the Hollywood Sign. While not exactly un-touristy, it was an awesome way to view the hilly landscape of LA. It was a steep hike up, but on the way you got to see so many beautiful views (while watching out for mountain lions and rattlesnakes, of which I as an Ohioan am NOT used to.)

Processed with VSCOcam with a9 preset

One definite tourist thing my friend Jeannette and I did was go to Hollywood. To me it seemed like a mixture of Times Square pedestrian traffic and Gatlinburg, Tennessee tourist traps. It was good to get things like the Hollywood Walk of Fame, the TCL Chinese Theatre, and Mel’s Diner crossed off the list (shout out to our stellar waiter August somewhere out there). Hollywood wasn’t what I expected, but it’s something I suppose you need to see when you go to LA.

Processed with VSCOcam with a6 preset

No Southern California excursion is complete without some beach time along with a complimentary sunburn (for the record, a very painful one that kept me up all night). Jeannette and I started in Santa Monica and walked all the way to Venice Beach and Muscle Beach. It was a perfect, clear and 75 degree day. It was my first trip to see the Pacific, so I loved seeing the continuous waves crashing on the shore, which doesn’t happen so much at the Gulf or Atlantic. After miles of walking on the beach we decided that we obviously hadn’t seen enough beaches so we decided to go up to Zuma Beach in Malibu at sunset. Malibu was much more serene and scenic than the busy Santa Monica and Venice Beaches, but they all had their perks. However, here’s one tip- if you take an Uber to Malibu, make sure you have a ride back, because there’s a good chance you’ll get stranded at a Mexican restaurant like we did.

Processed with VSCOcam with a9 preset

After I felt like I had got a good sense for the surrounding LA neighborhoods, it was time for me to do what I do best while traveling- wandering around alone aimlessly in urban environments. Maybe I’m missing something, but it seems like no one really talks about downtown LA. You hear a lot about Hollywood, Beverly Hills, and the rich kids who live on cool beach towns in southern Cali on TV shows (shout out to The O.C.). But Los Angeles is pretty different from the hoods I’ve been to like NYC and Chicago. I had heard people giving LA public transportation a bad rap but I wanted to try it out for myself. I got on the commuter train and got off at Union Station, switched to the Subway and got off at a random stop that was supposed to be downtown. I immediately stumbled upon a major gem of a bookstore called The Last Bookstore. I highly recommend!!! It was a miracle I found it so easily. Little Tokyo was supposed to be near so I then wandered over to that and explored one of its quaint shopping areas.

Processed with VSCOcam with a9 preset

I followed signs for the nearby Arts District, which by the sound of it seemed like a cool place to be. I quickly found myself in a place that very much did not seem like a District designated for Art. My first clue should have been an empty shopping cart with a comforter in it, parked on an uninhabited sidewalk. I looked to my peripherals and it seemed like there was no one on the streets around. Awesome, I thought, I can finally take photos in peace without any audience members watching me in judgement. It seemed like there was no real Arts District, unless they counted empty warehouses as such, so I headed west towards downtown to get back to a subway stop. Slowly more characters appeared on the street, gradually appearing less trustworthy. I started to become anxious as I saw streets lined with tents in all directions. I figured there was no escaping unless I wanted to go back to empty streets where anyone could do God know’s what to me in broad daylight, so I pushed through. The sidewalks became harder to navigate as the tents became more dense. I clearly didn’t belong. I put my camera in my backpack to avoid getting any more looks than a young-looking girl already would. My heart rate increased as well as my stride as I felt more and more looks and heard calls from the citizens on the street. Suddenly, I crossed to the next block and the landscape was suddenly safer, filled with restaurants and stores. It wasn’t until later on the train that I looked up where I was on a map and discovered that I was on Skid Row.

Processed with VSCOcam with a6 preset

On my final night in the city, Jeannette and I went to the filming location of the City Hall of Pawnee in Parks and Recreation (the real location is in Pasadena). As if I hadn’t felt my life threatened enough in LA, it was wonderful when an unknown man started following us right outside of the City Hall. We ran towards the nearest woman walking and he finally turned away but it was NOT cool. People of LA: PLEASE raise your men to stop harassing women (and other men too). After that, we went to a really good burger place (and hot dog if you’re into that) called Dog Haus. It was my favorite meal on the trip. I am very picky and UN-adventurous when it comes to food, so don’t take my dining advice, but it is an apparent LA favorite. Another good dining establishment was a Japanese fusion restaurant called Octopus. After these two, I’m out of suggestions. I’m not normal enough to have a food blog.

Well, that’s about all the stories I have from my four and a half days in LA. Even though I found myself in unsafe neighborhoods from my own ignorance many times, I really liked the place. I don’t think you could ever run out of things to do there. The hills and ocean are beautiful and the weather is perfect. I hope to see you again soon, Los Angeles.

Next stop: Melbourne, Australia.

Processed with VSCOcam with c1 preset
