---
title:  Japan
categories: photography travel
tags: photography travel
layout: post
---

Kyoto_70

I have little to say about Japan. I’m really at a loss for words. Not because there’s nothing to talk about, but because there is just so much. It’s a place with so much beauty, culture, and history that I don’t feel comfortable speaking on it’s behalf. I want everyone to get to go to Japan. There’s a quiet in the way Japan presents itself that is uniquely mesmerizing. Not only is Japan the most photogenic place I have ever been, but it seems photography is more welcome there. Maybe it was the language barrier, but I no longer felt as shy reaching my camera out. I felt my creative ideas running a little dry before this trip, but it seemed like Japan was a place that shared a voice similar to the one I wanted to express. It was like a visually perfect dream that was actually real. So if it’s alright with you, I think I’ll just let the pictures talk for the most part this time.

During my 9 days in Japan, I started and ended my trip in Tokyo, taking the Shinkansen to Kyoto and Osaka for a few days in between. In Kyoto, I encountered some of the country’s most precious landmarks. I mean that city had shrines on shrines and temples on temples. So many shrines and temples. It was beautiful, but with beauty comes tourists, and with tourists comes stress and slightly bad moods on my part. I made the most of it and tried to find the places that were more remote and peaceful, which Kyoto has plenty of.


KyotoBW_12KyotoBW_7Kyoto_220KyotoBW_5Kyoto_248Kyoto_208KyotoBW_1Kyoto_136KyotoBW_28Kyoto_39

After Kyoto, I took a one-night side trip to Osaka to get a glimpse of another Japanese city. I mostly wandered with no destination in mind. I stumbled into a 6-floor arcade that was the most magical place I had ever seen. I knew Japan loved video games, but it was more grand that I could’ve imagined. Japan has a way of making you feel like you’ve entered another world.

Osaka_26Osaka_27 Osaka_24 Osaka_17 Osaka_15 Osaka_13Osaka_5

After Kyoto and Osaka, it was back to the main event, Tokyo. Tokyo is probably the best city in the world, but I haven’t seen all of them so I’m not allowed to say that. I’ve never been somewhere so urban and vast, yet so quiet and peaceful at the same time. The people are nice, it’s clean, and it’s extremely safe. The biggest city in the world is bursting with life in every corner.

TokyoBW_55Tokyo_317 TokyoBW_30Tokyo_166 Tokyo_323TokyoBW_12 Tokyo_320Tokyo_286 Tokyo_297Tokyo_285 Tokyo_281TokyoBW_65 Tokyo_258 Tokyo_191Tokyo_194 Tokyo_229 TokyoBW_48 Tokyo_230 Tokyo_232 Tokyo_182Tokyo_143 Tokyo_135 Tokyo_133TokyoBW_71 Tokyo_129TokyoBW_43 Tokyo_26 Tokyo_42 Tokyo_51Tokyo_70 Tokyo_25 Tokyo_23TokyoBW_67Tokyo_61

It’ll probably be unfortunate in the future, finding out that one of the first countries I ever visited can’t be topped. I can’t wait to go back someday, but in the meantime I think Japan will be a place that I find myself dreaming about often.
