---
title:  Thoughts from 'Art and Fear'
category: thoughts
tags: thoughts writing art and fear
layout: post
---

“Artists don’t get down to work until the pain of working is exceeded by the pain of not working.”
-Stephen DeStaebler

I just finished reading Art & Fear by David Bayles & Ted Orland. With the event of graduation coming up in the next few weeks, it seemed like an applicable piece of advice for this time in my life. It ended up having some very good points although slightly depressing facts about the nature and obstacles in the art making process that I can very much relate to. They talked mainly about the importance of perseverance, routine, and sincerity in the art you make. Bayles and Orland stated that “making art has to do with overcoming things.”

I’m not an art major (even though I was for a year before changing my mind, which I did a lot), but art touches many parts of my life. With college graduation looming in 6 weeks, I can’t stop wondering who I’ll be apart from the educational environment that’s kept me safe for 4 years. I think I’m someone who thrives off of the structured and organized world of higher education. It’s full of opportunities to express yourself, grow, and learn independently about whatever you desire. Studying subjects such as photography, music, and visual art have given me places to practice my passions and learn in the safe classroom environment while having a captive audience. One thing the book touched on was the depressing fact that after university, many artists quit. Not because they’ve lost interest or talent but because they’ve lost their audience. The thing I find so appealing about the classroom environment is the sense of purpose that comes with showing your work. The best advice Bayles and Orland give is to make friends with other fellow artists.

Lately, I’ve been feeling unproductive as an artist. But I’ve felt a growing fear that I will fail in making the things I create. It’s not so much that I fear making mistakes, but that I fear the psychological toll that making mistakes takes. I fear that if I disappoint myself enough, I might want to quit. And I fear quitting because quitting would mean ceasing to do the things that I’m passionate about. I want to do the things I love like photography, music, crafts, drawing, and painting, and I want to learn even more skills. But I don’t want to grow tired of not meeting my own expectations (which are high). I want to make art more, but I want to do it well. Well, don’t we all?

“To make art is to sing with the human voice. To do this you must first learn that the only voice you need is the voice you already have. Art work is ordinary work, but it takes courage to embrace that work, and wisdom to mediate the interplay of art & fear. Sometimes to see your work’s rightful place you have to walk to the edge of the precipice and search the deep chasms. You have to see that the universe is not formless and dark throughout, but awaits simply the revealing light of your own mind. Your art does not arrive miraculously from the darkness, but is made uneventfully in the light.”

Bayles and Orland said that “even the failed pieces are essential.” When I read that, it sounded like something that I’ve needed to hear for a long time. I’m the type of person who really likes using my time effectively. So much so that I actually sit down and plan what I’m going to do in my free time so that I don’t slack off in my passionate endeavors. I have many hobbies, and they’re all very important to me, and I have a hard time letting some of the ones that are less important go. (I mean, what if I forget how to cross stitch?? That would be the end of my creative success and value as a person!) Okay, I’m a little obsessive about my hobbies and sometimes can’t relax properly, but it all goes to show that I want to live a rich, creative life.

When I do something poorly, I think hard about the time spent working towards futile ends and I wonder if it was all time wasted. When you’re making art that requires a lot of practice and iterations, it can be very time consuming. Lately I’ve started worrying about it so much that I freeze and cease producing work. I miss how things used to be, when I was a naive amateur, drawing copied artworks and taking pictures of strange things around the house on disposable cameras and calling it “art.” When you’re an amateur, things are blissfully easy because you aren’t as invested in getting them right as you are enjoying the process. But as I’ve grown older, I’ve become much harder to please and find it very difficult to get back to enjoying art for the sake of making art. All because I’ve become so afraid of failing.

But in the end, if the failed pieces really are essential, none of the time spent making art is time wasted. For one thing, it’s all practice that helps your skills improve. On another note, art happens in iterations. Not all pieces are going to be good. You’ll make mistakes. And you’ll make miracles. You’ve just got to show up and make the things you want to make and learn the things you need to learn from your mistakes so that you can improve. And last, if you feel called to make art, it’s most likely because you enjoy it. So do it. Even if the piece fails, you still expressed what you needed to express, hopefully learned a little about what you do and don’t like, gained some skills, and at the very least enjoyed the process.

_“In the end it all comes down to this: you have a choice…between giving your work your best shot and risking that it will not make you happy, or not giving it your best shot- and thereby guaranteeing that it will not make you happy. It becomes a choice between certainty and uncertainty. And curiously, uncertainty is the comforting choice.”_
