---
title: Reflection on Traveling
categories: travel thoughts
tags: travel thoughts
---

Colorado_2

I’m sitting on a 12 hour and 5 minute flight across the Pacific from Brisbane to LA. Two hours before landing, a flight attendant announces over the intercom, “If we have any medical doctors on board please make yourself known to the flight attendant.” I look to the aisle ahead to my right. A woman who looks a few years older than me is lying on the floor, surrounded by two flight attendants and her friend. With no doctors available, they move the woman to a curtained chamber and place an oxygen mask on her face. Thirty minutes before landing, the woman is moved 3 rows ahead of me into a seat and I see a wide stroke of blood on her back. Throughout the flight, another person a few rows ahead vomits into the “Feeling sick?” curtsey paper bag 3 times.

Meanwhile, my anxiety is taking a physical form that no amount of deep breathing can stop. I complain of having heartburn and numbness in my left arm that is not routine for my body. I honestly believe that I might have a heart attack on this plane, no matter how unreasonable that seems.

It’s been a week since I arrived home after spending 6 weeks traveling to LA, Melbourne, Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka, Brisbane, Denver, and Winter Park, Colorado. I had a good portion of time to ponder the meaning of travel and the human motivation to do so. I quickly realized that living out of a suitcase for a month and a half starts to wear on a person. The sleeping in unfamiliar beds, the scattering of belongings, the lack of ownership of dwelling places, the walking farther than your arches can support, the 24-hour flights, are all key components of traveling that are often overlooked with the eagerness of the planning period.

ColoradoCan we just talk about how much traveling can suck sometimes? I know it’s not all bad, of course, and I do not mean to complain about the great privilege I’ve had to see some of the world. But I don’t think people talk about the bad parts of traveling very much. I like to think that there’s a distinction to be made between “traveling” and “vacation.” There’s nothing more glamorized among 20-something hipsters than traveling and adventure. There is no better way to show people from high school that you’re going far in life than by posting pictures of yourself in foreign countries on Instagram. The word adventure is tossed around like a sack of potatoes and I’ll be honest, the ball’s in my court too. But I think we can all be honest for a moment and say that a lot of what we do isn’t really adventure at all. Taking a plane ride? Not really an adventure. Taking a bus tour? Nah. Walking to a wooded area and not doing anything remotely risky at all? Nope. But it’s fun to use the word and try to get away with it anyway.

Here’s something a lot of people won’t tell you: traveling alone to new places for 6 weeks is really hard. In the beginning, I had the mindset that my experience should be treated more like a vacation and that I should try to enjoy myself and be in good spirits the whole time. That’s my OCD kicking in, trying to discipline myself into happiness (which is never effective). But to grow, you need to do hard things. You need to be uncomfortable and unhappy sometimes to get from point A to point B. We’re creatures that thrive off of sensing differences. It’s why the rich get used to living in luxury and why we all seek different haircuts and clothes and home decor. It’s a good reason that we crave to leave where we live and get out into a different part of the world every once and awhile.

My one question to more seasoned travelers is if they ever reach a point where they feel like they can no longer embrace the open road. I thought I hit a wall near the end of my trip where I was no longer open and ready to experience new things. I just wanted to be home so I could get back to work on all the projects I had left. If humans need change, what happens when change is the norm? I mean, can people travel constantly through their life and remain in awe and inspired by the world around? The romanticizing of travel makes it appear like it’s the absolute highest tier of human experience and can never be grown tired of. But my hunch is that there comes a point where you need to be “home” too. I think a good balance keeps the mind open and ready for the lessons to be learned both in new experiences and old. I could just be a high strung homebody, but if anyone out there has traveled for years at a time, I would be interested to hear the truth.

When I sat on that 12 hour and 5 minute plane ride, I wondered if a 46-day anxiety attack was really worth the travel experience. I didn’t anticipate to have such severe side effects of anxiety, but I suppose my body and unreasonable unconscious mind had other plans. Not a day passed where I didn’t consciously fear death abundantly with every mode of transportation taken or street corner turned. Fireworks in the night that to me sounded like live gun shots. Pains in strange areas that made me believe I would soon mysteriously perish from an undisclosed disease. Walks from sets of legs too close behind that made me feel on the verge of being kidnapped or worse. It was unreasonable, but it was real, and it builded and builded. I wondered if perhaps I wasn’t good enough to travel alone extensively. There’s something to be said for conquering your fears. But there’s a difference between fear and it’s cousin, anxiety. So, what happens when you try to actively conquer your anxieties? Why does it feel like the more I put myself in situations that intersect with anxiety triggers, the more my physical symptoms of the disorder increase and increase?

Let’s get this straight-there’s nothing brave about me. I’m a hidden wimp. All you have to do to travel alone is be someone that both enjoys your own company and who won’t wait up for anyone. When people let me down and showed they weren’t worthy of my trust I turned around and told myself to do something on my own, to be my own savior. I’m just someone who is over-anxious but fakes it until I can finally feel like a reasonable being. I planned this trip when I was in a bad place mentally, and it wouldn’t have happened if I hadn’t endured such. I planned it to give me hope, to get my mind off things, to have something worthwhile in my future when it all seemed dark. And frankly, I was just crazy enough at the time to do it. I’m thankful for not being entirely sane. I’m thankful for the grave times that made me feel so worthless and defeated that it gave me no choice but to book flights for one to foreign countries. If I had been a happy person at the time, none of it would have happened.

Colorado_1

So why do we travel? To experience other cultures, to “find ourselves”, to relax, to practice living in the moment, to enjoy life, to make memories, to get out of the house? There’s plenty of good reasons, but when the going gets tough, it’s easy to ask yourself what’s really in it for you. It’s not always the most enjoyable thing in the moment if I’m honest with myself, but there are many great things that came out of it. For example, I no longer feel fear when eating alone. I now feel more confident, more able to articulate my feelings and opinions without fear. Traveling taught me that there are many types of people and cultures and social norms. What’s normal for one group can be foreign for the other. And when you live long enough deep inside one culture, it’s hard to see out into the thousands of others. You realize it’s okay to feel weird or to feel like you don’t fit in because where you live represents a small portion of society and there are billions of others out there with different backgrounds.

“For my part, I travel not to go anywhere, but to travel for travel’s sake. The great affair is to move; to feel the needs and hitches of our life more nearly; to come down off this feather-bed of civilization, and find the glove granite underfoot and strewn with cutting flints.”

– Robert Louis Stevenson

Traveling alone was lonely at times. It wasn’t the funnest company to have socially on such a trip, but from a soul searching perspective it was optimal. There’s something that can’t be replaced when you’re traveling outside of your own company. People are great, but you don’t get the exact same experience. When you’re alone, each decision is yours and each path you take impacts you and only you.

I think we practice traveling not only to see other pockets of the world, but to practice awe, observation, and living in the moment. Getting out gives us new reasons to live. The best thoughts and ideas come about when walking or going somewhere and I thrive off the burst of creativity I get. “Methinks that the moment my legs begin to move, my thoughts begin to flow,” said Henry David Thoreau. We need difference, we need change, and we need new directions every once and awhile. We need time to engage in our surroundings and senses, and we need time to disengage. We need people and we need alone time. We need home and we need new roads to travel.

Colorado_43

On one of the last days of my trip, I hiked one of Colorado’s 14er mountains, Gray’s Peak. It was absolutely terrible most of the time. The beauty of hiking is once you get to the peak, the trauma of the ascent is erased completely. I’m convinced this is the only way that people hike. Does anyone even truly like hiking? I mean can you truly love anything? Because I don’t know if anyone else has noticed, but everything in life is really hard. As Rihanna states, “work, work, work, work, work.” I couldn’t have said it better myself. As usual, it’s my mind that most often gets in my way at tough times such as mountain climbing. I start to think that I can’t do anything and I start to mentally give up on all of my life dreams one by one, but then finally I arrive at my destination and my mind makes a 180 turn for the better. When you doubt if you can do anything of difficulty or challenge, remember that it’s in your blood to fight, to do hard things. It’s the instinct that will eventually take over you when you least expect it. It’s why you’re still alive. It’s why humans have survived through all the years. You may feel weak now, but a wave will come that will give you energy and inspiration to do something really hard and you’ll be grateful for it.

_“You must habit yourself to the dazzle of the light and of every moment of your life”_

– Walt Whitman
