---
title: Thanks, '16'
category: thoughts
tags: thoughts new year
layout: post
---


2016 was the true realization of Drake’s 2013 hit, Started From The Bottom. At the turn of the previous New Year, I was bound and determined to start fresh. This year I don’t feel the exact same urgency to change my life as dramatically as then, but I count that as a blessing. This year was full of uncomfortable situations that later yielded contentment, negative emotions burned as fuel for inspiration in creation, and lack of control permitting a greater appreciation for when things turn out as planned.

In 2016 I graduated college, moved to a new apartment in Cincinnati, got a job, a cat, and a harp, and travelled to Milwaukee, Chicago, Toronto, LA, Denver, Winter Park, Gold Coast, Melbourne, Kyoto, Osaka, and Tokyo.

Things I sought to improve in 2016: saying ‘yes’ more, taking care of my mental health, greater independence, and staying in touch with people who matter to me.

Things I kind of bombed in 2016 but forgive myself for because I was concentrating on other things: working out (although I like to think that my new daily 2 mile walk to work and back gets me out of that?), healthy eating, and dwelling on on others’ opinions of me.

Things I want to work on in 2017: flossing more, taking care of physical self, not seeking other’s approval, and making stuff.

2016 was the year I wanted to feel good again. I am so grateful for the fortunate events of this year that made me what I am now—content. Thank you for not just being better, 2016, but for being bigger. I think 2017 will be too.

_“They say I changed, but what a pity if I stayed the same”_
–Solange
